.\" Copyright (c) 2019-2021 Miki Hermann & Gernot Salzer
.TH mcp-trans 1 "2021-03-10" "1.04" "MCP System"
.
.SH NAME
mcp-trans - binarization of data using a meta description
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcp-trans
.RI [\| "OPTION" "\|]\|.\|.\|."
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The data is binarized using a meta descitption. The resulting file is
ready to be used as input for the MCP core.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-input\fI input-file
Input file to be binarized.
.IP
Default: STDIN.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-hdr\fR, \fB\-\-header\fI header-file
Header file of binarized data, containg the description of variables
to be used by the MCP core for the matrix.
.IP
Default: The \fIbasename\fR of \fIinput-file\fR with \fI.hdr\fR suffix.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-prec\fR, \fB\-\-precedence\fI precedence-file
Precedence file of binarized data, containg the weights (positive integers) for each attribute coordinate. The default weight is 50. If \fIprecedence-file\fR exists, a warning is issued and no new precedence file is generated.
.IP
Default: The \fIbasename\fR of \fIinput-file\fR with \fI.prc\fR suffix.
.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fI output-file
Output file of binarized data, ready to be used by the MCP core.
.IP
Default: The \fIbasename\fR of \fIinput-file\fR with \fI.out\fR suffix or STDOUT.
.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-meta\fI meta-file
Description of the structure of the \fIinput-file\fR containing
binarization instructions. Format of the \fImeta-file\fR is described
in \fBmcp-trans\fR(5).
.
.TP
\fB\-\-pvt\fR, \fB\-\-pivot\fI pivot-file
Pivot output file, where values for the pivot coordinate will be stored.
Incompatible with the \fB\-\-robust\fR option.
.IP
The \fBpivot\fR is the identifier for the line data.
It is for instance an identifier (name or other denomination), a number, etc.
These \fBpivot\fR data will be used for prediction by the module \fBmcp-predict\fR.
.IP
Default: The \fIbasename\fR of \fIinput-file\fR with \fI.pvt\fR suffix.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-drop \fRno | yes | silent
Dropping of values outside intervals.
.IP
no: Values outside intervals are considered as errors and reported as such.
.IP
yes: Values outside intervals are dropped with a warning.
.IP
silent: Values outside intervals are dropped without a warning.
.IP
Default: no.
.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-robust \fRno | yes
Robust extensions of defective data containing the indicator '?' of missing data.
Incompatible with the \fB\-\-pivot\fR option.
.IP
no: No robust extensions computed. Defective data with missing data indicator '?' are discarded.
.IP
yes: Robust extensions computed. Defective data with missing data indicator '?' are replaced with extensions.
.IP
Robust extensions are computed from all other data for each coordinate according to
.IP
E. Boros, T. Ibaraki, K. Makino.
Boolean analysis of incomplete examples.
Proceedings 5th Scandinavian Workshop on Algorithm Theory (SWAT 1996), Reykjavík, (Iceland).
R. Karlsson and A. Lingas (editors),
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 1097. Springer, July 1996.
.IP
Default: no.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-index \fRlocal | global
Indexing of variables.
.IP
global:
Indexes of variables are consecutive, irrespective of different
variable identifiers.
.IP
local:
Indexes are proper for each variable identifier.
.IP
Default: local.
.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-concept \fRyes | no
Should the group concept, leading each matrix row, be present?
.IP
yes:
Group concept present.
.IP
no:
Group concept absent.
.IP
Default: yes.
.
.TP
.BI "\-\-offset " INTEGER
Internally, all indices begin with 0. However, when the data is
displayed in an Excel sheet, the variables may begin in a column
different from 0. To identify the same variables in an Excel sheet and
the output of this software, you can define an offset. E.g., the
offset 1 will shift the variable indices by 1 and therefore first
variable will have the index 1.
.IP
Negative offsets are converted to 0.
.IP
Default: 0.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
mcp-trans(5),
mcp-guess(1),
mcp-split(1),
mcp-seq(1),
mcp-mpi(1),
mcp-pthread(1),
mcp-hybrid(1),
mcp-check(1),
mcp-sparse(1),
mcp-chk2tst(1),
mcp-predict(1)
.
.SH BUGS
There are certanly some.
.
.SH AUTHORS
Miki Hermann <hermann@lix.polytechnique.fr>
.br
Gernot Salzer <gernot.salzer@tuwien.ac.at>
