.\" Copyright (c) 2019-2021 Miki Hermann & Gernot Salzer
.TH mcp-check 1 "2021-03-10" "1.04" "MCP System"
.
.SH NAME
mcp-check - checking the accuracy of a formula
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcp-check
.RI [\| "OPTION" "\|]\|.\|.\|."
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Takes a formula produced by the MCP core and checks its accuracy
against a set of Boolean vectors prefixed by a group identifier. The
accuracy of the checked formula is reported in terms of true positives
(tp), true negatives (tn), false positive (fp), false negatives (fn),
sensitivity (tp / (tp + fn)), miss rate (fn / (fn + tp)), specificity
(tn / (tn + fp)), and precision (tp / (tp + fp)).
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-input\fI input-file
Boolean vectors prefixed by group identifiers used to check the
formulas accuracy.
.IP
Default: STDIN.
.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fI output-file
Report of the checking run.
.IP
Default: STDOUT.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-formula\fI formula-file
File containing the formula produced by MCP core. The
\fIformula-file\fR has the name \fIformula-prefix_G.log\fR if it has
been produced by the option "\fB\-\-formula \fIformula-prefix\fR" for
some group \fIG\fR.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-print\fR clause | implication | mix | dimacs
Printing format of the used formula.
.IP
clause:
.br
Print each clause as a disjunction of positive and negative literals.
.br
Example: (-x0 + x1) * (x0 + -x1).
.IP
implication:
.br
Print each clause as an implication.
.br
Example: (x0 -> x1) * (x1 -> x0).
.IP
mix:
.br
If there are only literals of one polarity in a clause, then print as
"clause", otherwise as "implication".
.IP
dimacs:
.br
Print the formula in DIMACS format, one clause per line (implies
\fB\-\-offset\fR greater than 0).
.IP
Default: mix.
.PP
.
.SH SEE ALSO
mcp-guess(1),
mcp-trans(1),
mcp-split(1),
mcp-seq(1),
mcp-mpi(1),
mcp-pthread(1),
mcp-hybrid(1)
.
.SH BUGS
There are certanly some.
.
.SH AUTHORS
Miki Hermann <hermann@lix.polytechnique.fr>
.br
Gernot Salzer <gernot.salzer@tuwien.ac.at>
