.\" Copyright (c) 2019-2021 Miki Hermann & Gernot Salzer
.TH mcp-guess 1 "2021-03-10" "1.04" "MCP System"
.
.SH NAME
mcp-guess - guessing the structure of a CSV file
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcp-guess
.RI [\| "OPTION" "\|]\|.\|.\|."
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Guesses the structure of a CSV file and proposes the template of a
meta-file (cf. \fBmcp-trans\fR). 
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-input\fI input-file
Input file in CSV format. Values in the CSV file can be separated by
commas, semicolons, space, or tabs. Values can be quoted.
.IP
Default: STDIN.
.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-names\fI name-file
File with names, one per line, for the coordinates.
Leading and trailing whitespace is deleted.
Whitespace between strings is replaced by underscore.
.IP
Default: No \fIname-file\fR is used. Coordinate identifiers will have the form
\fBid \fIINTEGER\fR.
.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fI output-file
Output file containing the template of the \fImeta-file\fR. This
template must be manually edited to be accepted by \fBmcp-trans\fR. If
there is no suffix starting with a dot, the software adds \fI.txt\fR
to the \fIoutput-file\fR.
.IP
Default: STDOUT, resp. the \fIbasename\fR of \fIinput-file\fR with
\fI.txt\fR suffix.
.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-enum\fI INTEGER
Maximum number of items to enumerate. Must be between 3 and 500.
.IP
Default: 20
.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-ratio\fI FLOAT
Maximum enumeration ratio between 0.0 and 1.0.
The ratio is computed as the number of encountered values
divided by the number of data lines.
.IP
Default: 0.01
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
mcp-trans(1),
mcp-split(1),
mcp-seq(1),
mcp-mpi(1),
mcp-pthread(1),
mcp-hybrid(1),
mcp-check(1),
mcp-sparse(1),
mcp-chk2tst(1),
mcp-predict(1)
.
.SH BUGS
There are certanly some.
.
.SH AUTHORS
Miki Hermann <hermann@lix.polytechnique.fr>
.br
Gernot Salzer <gernot.salzer@tuwien.ac.at>
