.\" Copyright (c) 2019-2024 Miki Hermann & Gernot Salzer
.TH mcp-sample 1 "2024-04-13" "1.04" "MCP System"
.
.SH NAME
mcp-sample -- sampling uniformly at random from a large data file
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mcp-sample
.RI [\| "OPTION" "\|]\|.\|.\|."
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Data is sampled from input file uniformly at random according to a
confidence interval or an error bound, similarly to opinion polls.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-input\fI input-file
Input file from which a sample will be extracted.
.IP
Default: STDIN.
.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fI output-file
Output file of sampled data.
.IP
Default: STDOUT or \fIbasename\fR of \fIinput-file\fR with
\_\fIsample\fR infix and \fIinput-file\fR suffix.
.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-confidence\fR \fIFLOAT \fR or \fR \fIPERCENTAGE \fR
.IP
Confidence interval written either as a float between 0.001 and 0.2 or a
percentage with \fI%\fR sign between 0.1% and 20%. Equivalent to
double of \fIerror bound\fR. Cannot be specified together with
\fIerror bound\fR.
.IP
Default: 2.5%.
.
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-bound\fR \fIFLOAT \fR or \fR \fIPERCENTAGE \fR
.IP
Error bound written either as a float between 0.0005 and 0.1 or a
percentage with \fI%\fR sign between 0.05% and 10%. Equivalent to half
of \fIconfidence interval\fR. Cannot be specified together with
\fIconfidence interval\fR.
.
.TP
\fB\-#\fR, \fB\-\-card\fR \fINUMBER \fR
.IP
Cardinality of the sample. Overrides confidence interval and error
bound.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-big\fR
.IP
Indication that the data file is too big (e.g., 100GB) to be held
entirely in the memory.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
mcp-clean(1)
.
.SH BUGS
There are certanly some.
.
.SH AUTHORS
Miki Hermann <hermann@lix.polytechnique.fr>
.br
Gernot Salzer <gernot.salzer@tuwien.ac.at>
